Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)

Virtual Private Cloud or VPC allows you to create your own private network in the cloud. You can launch services, like EC2, inside of that private network. A VPC spans all the Availability Zones in the region.

VPC allows you to control your virtual networking environment, which includes:

-IP address ranges
-subnets
-route tables
-network gateways
-Tips
-VPC is found under Networking & Content Delivery section of the AWS Management Console.
-The default limit is 5 VPCs per Region. You can request an increase for these limits.
-Your AWS resources are automatically provisioned in a default VPC.
-There are no additional charges for creating and using the VPC.
-You can store data in Amazon S3 and restrict access so that it’s only accessible from instances in your VPC.



According to AWS:

Virtual private cloud (VPC) is an isolated virtual-network dedicated to your AWS resources, such as Amazon EC2 instances.

When you create your first instance, a default VPC is gets created for you. Alternatively, you can create your custom VPC with user-defined subnets, route tables, internet gateways, and many other desirable configurations. To get started, let's have a walkthrough of the VPC Dashboard.

A. Get Started
Log in to your AWS account, and go to the AWS Management Console. Select the VPC service.


Snapshot 1. Select the VPC service from the AWS Management Console

B. VPC Dashboard
The snapshot below shows the VPC Dashboard. It shows metrics and information about all of the VPCs running in your account. You can also launch the VPC Wizard which will help your build your custom VPC.


Snapshot 2. VPC Dashboard

The details of the items highlighted in red above are:

1. Resource Summary
It shows the summary of VPC resources available under your account for each region. It includes VPC resources like subnets, route tables, internet gateways, endpoints, network ACL, and many more.

2. Services under VPC
In the navigation on your left, you can see a categorized list of services that become a part of a VPC. Let's have an overview of a few key concepts:

Your VPCs - It will list all your VPCs and display the deep-dive details of the selected VPC. Each VPC has a valid IPv4/IPv6 CIDR block allocated to it. Every resource in the VPC will have an IP address from the allocated CIDR block. Though, a few IP addresses reserved for special purposes.
Subnets - It represents a subset of your VPC, i.e., a range of IP addresses from the CIDR block allocated to your VPC. Subnets of a VPC can be present in different AZs.
Route tables - These are the set of rules, called routes, that determine to which IP address the network traffic should be directed.
Internet gateways - If any of your resources within your VPC wants to communicate to the internet, then you must attach an internet gateway to your VPC. The internet gateway enables the communication between resources in your VPC and the internet.
3. Service Health
Here, you can glance at the current status and details about the services in your VPC.



_______________________________kfkf

Launch the VPC Wizard
Let's learn how to create your custom VPC. From the VPC Dashboard, click the Launch VPC Wizard. It is a two-step process, as mentioned below.


Snapshot 1. Launch the VPC Wizard, and select one of the pre-defined network structure.

Step 1: Network Structure
Select the Network Structure from the options below:

VPC with a Single Public Subnet
VPC with Public and Private Subnets
VPC with Public and Private Subnets and Hardware VPN Access
VPC with a Private Subnet Only and Hardware VPN Access

Snapshot 2. Specify the VPC configuration

Step 2: Specify the VPC configuration
The VPC configuration includes:

The IP address in the VPC follows a classless inter-domain routing (CIDR) block of IP addresses. You will have to specify the IPv4/IPv6 CIDR block to be allocated to the VPC. In the snapshot above, it uses an IPv4 10.0.0.0/16 block, which allocates 2^(32-16) = 65,536 IP addresses. A few IP addresses are reserved, so you get 65531 IP addresses for further allocation.

You will have to specify the range of IP address from the allocated CIDR block for each subnet. In the example above, the public subnet has been allotted the 10.0.0.0/24 range, which comprises 2^(32-24) = 256 IP addresses. But, again a few IP addresses are reserved, so you get 251 available for resources in that subnet.

Similarly, for the private subnet in the snapshot above, you will get 251 IP addresses.
Specify the AZ for each subnet, NAT gateway or elastic IP allocation ID, and the service endpoints that will allow you to privately connect your VPC to supported AWS services.