What is Elastic Container Service (ECS)?
ECS is an orchestration service used for automating deployment, scaling, and managing of your containerized applications. ECS works well with Docker containers by:

launching and stopping Docker containers
scaling your applications
querying the state of your applications
Tips
ECS falls under the Compute section on the AWS Management Console.
You can schedule long-running applications, services, and batch processeses using ECS.
Docker is the only container-runtime platform supported by Amazon ECS. Other container-runtime tools available in the insdustry are Rocket, LXD, OpenVZ, any a few more.





How does Amazon ECS helps?
Assume you have a multi-container application that you want to run on the cloud. You may also require to scale the containers automatically based on the incoming traffic in such a case.

Amazon ECS deploys, manages, and scales containers based on your resource needs and supports other AWS services like Elastic Load Balancing, EC2 security groups, EBS volumes, and IAM roles.

Key terms related to Amazon ECS
Task definition
A task definition describes the application requirements concerning containers, such as the max amount of total CPU and memory used for the task (not for the individual container) and container definitions.

ECS offers to create a task definition using either the AWS Fargate or AWS EC2. AWS Fargate is priced based on the task size, whereas the EC2 service is priced based on computing resource usage.


You can create a task definition using either the AWS Fargate or AWS EC2

          Either way, you can add a container definition, as shown in the snapshot below.


Add a container definition

ECS cluster
A cluster is a set of containers running task requests within an AWS region. A default cluster gets created when you create and run your first task definition.
Container agent
It is a utility that connects container instances to one of your clusters. Each container instance runs a container agent.
Container instance
A container instance is an EC2 instance that is registered into any of your ECS clusters.