Content Delivery In The Cloud
A Content Delivery Network (or CDN) speeds up delivery of your static and dynamic web content by caching content in an Edge Location close to your user base.

Benefits
The benefits of a CDN includes:
low latency
decreased server load
better user experience


Cloud Front
CloudFront is used as a global content delivery network (CDN). Cloud Front speeds up the delivery of your content through Amazon's worldwide network of mini-data centers called Edge Locations.

CloudFront works with other AWS services, as shown below, as an origin source for your application:

Amazon S3
Elastic Load Balancing
Amazon EC2
Lambda@Edge
AWS Shield

Tips:
CloudFront is found under the Networking & Content Delivery section on the AWS Management Console.
Amazon countinously adds new Edge Locations.
CloudFront ensures that end-user requests are served from the closest edge location.
CloudFront works with non-AWS origin sources.
You can use GeoIP blocking to serve content (or not serve content) to specific countries.
Cache control headers determine how frequently CloudFront needs to check the origin for an updated version your file.
The maximum size of a single file that can be delivered through Amazon CloudFront is 20 GB.


____________________________


S3 & CloudFront
In this hands-on exercise, you will access private S3 bucket content via a Cloud Front distribution. You will also learn that CloudFront, after caching, speeds up the delivery of content to your website.

Prerequisites: AWS Account
By the end of this lab, you will be able to:
Create and configure a bucket
Upload an object to a bucket
Create distribution
Follow the exercise instructions described below:

Step 1. Create S3 Bucket
From the AWS Management Console page, select the S3 service.
Use the Create bucket wizard to create a bucket with the following details:
Field	Value
Bucket name	Your choice
Bucket name must be globally unique
Region	Default
Block all public access	Turn on
Block the public access.
Bucket Versioning	Disable
Server-side encryption	Disable
Once the bucket is created, you will be taken to the Buckets dashboard. Click on the bucket name to view the details, and upload files and folders.

Click the "Add files" to upload a file

Step 2. Upload Object to Bucket
Once the bucket is open to view its contents, click the Upload button to add files/folders.
Click the Add Files button, and upload the Sample.html (or any file from your local computer) provided at the bottom of the current page.
Note that the Bucket has not allowed public access, therefore, the Sample.html file cannot be accessed via its object URL, such as https://my-014421265158-bucket.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/Sample.html.
Note - In the steps above, the object URL will be different in your case.


The figure above shows how to copy the S3 object URL.


The figure above shows AccessDenied error while trying to access the file via its S3 object URL


The figure above shows that the individual object (Sample.html) has no public access.

Step 3. Create CloudFront Distribution
Select the CloudFront service from the Services menu at the top left corner of your AWS console.
Start the Create Distribution wizard.
Under the Web delivery method, click the Get Started button, and use the following details to create a distribution:
Section	Field	Value
Origin Settings	Origin Domain Name	Select the S3 bucket that you created in the step above
Origin Path	Enter / to indicate the root level
Restrict Bucket Access	Yes
Origin Access Identity	Create a New Identity
(Allow access to the S3 content using CloudFront URL)
Grant Read Permission on Bucket	Yes, Update Bucket Policy
Automatically updates the bucket access policy in S3
to allow CloudFront to access the bucket content
Default Cache Behavior Settings	Viewer Protocol Policy	Redirect HTTP to HTTPS
In the configuration table above, the Grant Read Permission on Bucket says that "Yes, update access bucket policy automatically to allows the Origin Access Identity user access to the bucket content." Origin Access Identity user represents the CloudFront service. The policy is a JSON file that defines the access permissions to the bucket object.

Leave the defaults for the rest of the options. It may take up to 10 minutes for the CloudFront Distribution to get created. Upon successful creation of the CloudFront distribution, the S3 bucket access policy will also get updated automatically, as shown below.

The figure above shows the updated S3 access policy. We will learn more about the access policies in the upcoming lessons.

Once your CloudFront distribution is created, and the status shows as Deployed, copy its Domain Name (such as, dgf7z6g067r6d.cloudfront.net) and append /Sample.html before pasting it in a new browser.
For the initial few attempts, your https://dgf7z6g067r6d.cloudfront.net/Sample.html may redirect to https://my-014421265158-bucket.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/Sample.html, which is why you may still see an AccessDenied error.

Note - Remember, as soon as your CloudFront distribution is Deployed, it attaches to S3 and starts caching the S3 private pages. Once the caching is complete, the CloudFront domain name URL will stop redirecting to the S3 object URL. CloudFront may take 10-30 minutes (or more) to cache the S3 page, and you will be able to view the webpage, as shown below.

Note - In the steps above, the exact domain name and the object URL will be different in your case.


Final output at https://dgf7z6g067r6d.cloudfront.net/Sample.html. However, at the same time, the https://my-014421265158-bucket.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/Sample.html will not work.

External Resources
Good to read - Restricting access to S3 content by using an Origin Access Identity
Step 4. Delete Bucket and Distribution
Delete the CloudFront distribution

On the Distributions dashboard, click on the radio button next to the Delivery Method for the distribution. Click Disable, and confirm the prompt.


Once the distribution is disabled, you can delete it by selecting the radio button next to the Delivery Method and clicking the Delete button.


You may also need to delete the Origin Access Identity users. To do so, you can go to the Origin Access Identity service in the CloudFront dashboard.


Delete OAI users

Delete the S3 bucket
To delete the S3 bucket, navigate to the S3 service.

Select the radio button next to the name of the bucket you want to delete. Note that the bucket you want to delete should be empty before deletion.

Click the Delete button on the top-right, and confirm the deletion.
