Relational Database Service (RDS)
RDS (or Relational Database Service) is a service that aids in the administration and management of databases. RDS assists with database administrative tasks that include upgrades, patching, installs, backups, monitoring, performance checks, security, etc.

Database Engine Support:
Oracle
PostgreSQL
MySQL
MariaDB
SQL Server


Features:

failover
backups
restore
encryption
security
monitoring
data replication
scalability


A. RDS Dashboard
Navigate to the RDS dashboard. It shows the database-resources summary, such as the count of database instances, the health of the database service, reserved instances, snapshots. You can also view the portion of the allocated storage. You can launch the Create database wizard from here.


Snapshot: RDS dashboard

B. Create a Database
AWS provides two options to choose from:

Standard create - You have set all of the configuration options, including ones for availability, security, backups, and maintenance.
Easy create - You use the industry best-practice configurations. All configuration options, except the Encryption and VPC details, can be changed after the database is created.
The snapshot below shows the fields you choose while creating a MySQL database using the Easy create option.


Snapshot: Create a database - Choose the Easy create option


Snapshot: Create a database - Use the RDS Free Tier template.

Use either the RDS Free Tier or Dev/test template. On free-tier resources, you can develop and test applications to gain hands-on experience with Amazon RDS


Snapshot: Create a database - View default settings

Notice that all configuration settings, except the Encryption and VPC details, can be changed after the database is created.

C. Details of an Existing Database
We have created a sample database-1 to explain the information you can view at the Databases dashboard.


Snapshot: A sample database-1.

For each database in the list above, you can see the Region and availability zone it's running in, the size, and the status that it's up and running. You can also see the percentage utilization of the underlying CPU.


Snapshot: Connectivity & security details of the selected database

Connectivity & security - View the endpoint URL in the snapshot above. In order to see the data stored in this database, because it's MySQL, you can use a tool like MySQL Workbench. You will need to know the endpoint URL in order to connect directly to this database. In addition, you can view information about networking, the security groups that it's a part of, and replication information.
Monitoring - It shows several useful metrics about the status of your database, such as CPU utilization percentage, the number of connections, the free storage space, etc.
Logs & events - It shows useful events. For example, it shows the timestamp when the database was created, when the last backup occurred, etc.
Configuration - It shows more high-level information, like the ARN number, DB instance configurations, MySQL engine version, creation time, the master username, and other similar details.
Maintenance & backups - It shows any snapshots recently created. Note that the snapshots are taken automatically but you do have the option to configure it.
More to Explore
For enterprise-level database requirements, AWS offers another service - Amazon Aurora. It is a MySQL- and PostgreSQL-compatible enterprise-class database, According to AWS:

Amazon Aurora supports up to 64TB of auto-scaling storage capacity, 6-way replication across three availability zones, and 15 low-latency read replicas.